Title: Upgrading to DSM7
Date: 2022-1-3
Category: Networking
Tags: plex, synology, dsm, zerotier
Status: published

I've been meaning to upgrade my Synology NASes to DSM7.  I upgraded my DS415+
last week, and it went smoothly, so today I researched all the packages I have installed on my 
primary unit, a DS1618+.  I found that all but two would upgrade seamlessly;
the two trouble packages were Plex Media Server and ZeroTier.  Both of these
are supported on DSM7 -- see instructions for [PMS](https://www.blackvoid.club/plex-migration-with-dsm-7/)
and [ZeroTier](https://docs.zerotier.com/devices/synology/) -- but are more involved
than simply installing a package.  In particular, PMS requires a very specific procedure
to migrate from DSM6.

I had ZeroTier up and running quickly and easily using the linked instructions, but Plex Media Server
gave me a lot of trouble,
so I figured I would post about it in case others run into the same issue.

I had PMS running on DSM6, and I wanted to migrate my installation to DSM7.  This is not
as simple as upgrading a package, so I took care to perform the upgrade as instructed.
Following the instructions linked above, I downloaded PMS directly from Plex, then I
began a manual installation.

During the installation, the wizard presented an error
indicating a failed install (sorry but I did not take a screenshot).
I then started doing lots of research and tried the installation several times.  I also saw the 
migration log at `/volume1/Plex/Migration.log`, and it showed success, so that gave me an
idea: maybe the installation really did succeed, even though the wizard showed a failure.
I cleaned out everything (did a remove+erase of the PMS package, restored `/volume1/Plex`,
removed `/volume1/PlexMediaServer`) and reran the installation.  Predictably the wizard
showed a failure, and I just left it and tailed the migration log until the log showed success:

```
Plex Media Server migration to DSM 7 started:  Mon Jan  3 15:37:31 EST 2022
=== Mon Jan  3 15:37:31 EST 2022 === Start: Change ownership
=== Mon Jan  3 15:37:38 EST 2022 === Completed: Change ownership
=== Mon Jan  3 15:37:38 EST 2022 === Start: Convert symbolic links
=== Mon Jan  3 15:38:55 EST 2022 === Completed:  Convert symbolic links
=== Mon Jan  3 15:38:55 EST 2022 === Start: Migrate Plex Media Server
=== Mon Jan  3 15:40:42 EST 2022 === Completed:  Migrate Plex Media Server
=== Mon Jan  3 15:40:42 EST 2022 === Completed:  Migrate Plex Media Server
=== Mon Jan  3 15:40:42 EST 2022 === Start: Clean /volume1/Plex
=== Mon Jan  3 15:40:43 EST 2022 === Completed: Clean /volume1/Plex
```

I exited the wizard, and all was well.

There is one other change I did on the final, successful installation: when I removed
the PMS package after the first install (per instructions it requires two installs for a successful migration
from DSM6), I also removed the PlexMediaServer shared folder.  Maybe that was key:
I did not remove that shared folder after the first install, until my final attempt.

-----

Unfortunately DSM7 is complaining about my 3rd party RAM upgrade (2x 8GB sticks that
were removed from my Lenovo M900 when I upgraded that to 32GB), but otherwise DSM7
is great, and the upgrade went smoothly with the exception of Plex.
