Title: acme.sh and Let's Encrypt certificates
Slug: acme_sh-and-letsencrypt-certificates
Category: Tech
Tags: encryption
Date: 2021-10-18
Status: published

I have been needing to cut over to acme v2 for a long time, and I didn't bother doing it until way
too late -- this weekend.  As a result of my tardiness, my iPhone has not been able to receive email
from my mail server for more than a month now.

My current mail server runs dovecot + postfix (plus some other stuff), manually installed on FreeBSD,
and I have been trying to get Docker Mailserver working on a new Ubuntu server and have been having
nothing but trouble with that, so I finally gave up.  On the new setup I will still install everything
with Ansible, it just won't be Dockerized, and I'm okay with this.

Tonight I decided that in the interim I needed to at least fix the SSL certificates. While doing this,
 I ran into a problem that I cannot believe is not called out anywhere, so I'm writing about it. To be
fair, this is documented [here](https://github.com/acmesh-official/acme.sh/wiki/Server), but no howto I found mentions it.

[Let's Encrypt's client page](https://letsencrypt.org/docs/client-options/) lists [acme.sh](https://github.com/acmesh-official/acme.sh), but does not bother to mention that one must pass in the ```--server``` parameter in order
to use the Let's Encrypt CA with ```acme.sh```.  One must do this because the default CA for acme.sh
is ZeroSSL.

In fact, none of the dozen or so howtos I read made any mention of this!  And, since I had never heard
of ZeroSSL until tonight, I had no idea that it was a competitor to Let's Encrypt.

In order to create the Let's Encrypt certificate for my mail server (mail.unixdude.net), I set the 
```DO_API_KEY``` environment variable, then ran:

    acme.sh --issue -d mail.unixdude.net --dns dns_dgon --server letsencrypt

The magic there, for the Let's Encrypt user, is the ```--server letsencrypt``` parameter -- because as I mentioned the default is
ZeroSSL. If you try it without specifying the server, parts of this work and other parts of this do
not work, and the problem is not obvious, or at least it was not obvious to me.

In any case, I now have new certs running, and have a fully functioning system again -- which gives me
time to cut over to a new server.

I hope this post helps others who are running into the same issue I was hitting.
